hey guys what are you done exceptional
gamer this video is sponsored by gamma
labs they make an energy drink and it's
inspired by my daughter who is 15 years
old and just starting the process of
Juno choosing her major I've got some
notes here so that I can do this right
but first off word about gamma labs they
make an energy drink they'll be a link
in the description I'm gonna talk more
about them toward the tail end of this
video and Link another video they
they're the best there is they're
healthier more effective and cheaper
than their competition so so check them
out check the link check the video at
the end I'll I wish those guys success
because I'm excited about what they got
going on but back on topic choosing a
college major so first thing we're to
start off with is Who I am
I mentioned this because I hope that
this video reaches an audience outside
of people who are already subscribed to
me and I'm woody 42 I've been married
for almost 20 years now just one wife
and two kids I've had four careers
accountant computer programmer slash
sysadmin youtuber and now I own a
minecraft server woody craft net
I'm multi millionaire just barely you
know some days yes some days no
depending on like spending and earning
but I'm right around there I have a hard
time talking about money without
sounding like an arrogant douchebag so
forgive me but I'm trying to earn my
place amongst the sea of voices that
influence you as you choose your college
major so that's why that's why I
mentioned it the normal people who give
advice on choosing a college major are
in my opinion not well qualified right
like you okay if there's any high school
guidance counselor's out there you have
my apologies but people who came out of
college with like an education degree
and worked their way like into guidance
counseling and you know they've had up
with one government job for thirty years
and such I just feel like they're not
not there you know okay I wish that
voice like mine was included amongst the
sea of voices that influenced me when I
chose my majors oh yeah another piece of
who I am I have two undergrads
accounting an Mis and I have a master's
in engineering so I went to college what
a major means what a major really means
is its its influential in helping you
get your first job your college major
will define in some ways what your first
job is and that's about it and then your
first job combined with your education
is going to launch you into you know
what I think of as a PI into your career
right so if you get a major in you know
like communication and your first job is
that of a radio DJ then your next job
might be you know on the back end of you
know behind the camera if you call it
that or the job after that might be in
advertising or maybe you'll you know
write copy or something like that if you
get a major in accounting right your
first job might be as an accountant then
after that you could be a controller or
you know purchasing guy and like it
could open up all kinds of doors that
have to do with moving buying selling
etc with your accounting degree
accounting is really the language of
business that's what that is
and it opens all kinds of doors that you
know that a business degree would as
you'd expect if your degree is in law
you might be a lawyer but that's also
you know the kind of degree that opens
up being a politician you say some
people get angry all politicians are all
lawyers etc actually someone with a law
degree is pretty well qualified to write
laws that's that's one of the jobs that
that'll all degree opens for you when
you pick your major you're not
necessarily picking that super targeted
job that sometimes they say you are
right and some majors are more targeted
than others but you know if you a lot of
computer programmers I worked with had
engineering degrees especially
electrical engineering for some reason
people who got electrical engineering
degrees often wound
in programming engineering degrees kind
of set you up for programming that's
that's a part of the deal a lot of
people when they're choosing their major
the big question they have is is they're
often guided to choose their passion and
that was that was going to be one of the
core tenets of this video choosing your
passion got about five minutes left the
it's tough because when I was fifteen my
passion does involve surfing and
watching television and that was about
it
every office job seemed dreadful to me
like an absolute death sentence the
thing is I wasn't good enough for anyone
to pay me to be a professional surfer
and no one wants to pay you to watch TV
at all some goofball might try to
convince you there's a job out there
watching TV but just work with me no no
if you like laying on the couch and
watching Netflix you'll have to find
something else that's that's not
something you can earn money yet yeah a
lot of people like playing video games
right god I'm there right where with you
you know I understand
liking playing video games so sometimes
people who don't know that's gonna curse
people who don't know a darn thing about
video games or making them will say oh
if you like playing destiny you should
get a job writing the next destiny
if if you like computers if you
like figuring things out if you like
puzzles if you like like a
detail-oriented kind of drilling to the
bottom if you're the sort of guy who
thrives and just likes computers then
you might like playing destiny or making
destiny I mean to say if you're an
artist there's jobs you know in video
games for you then that's for sure but
if you just like playing games that
doesn't mean that you're a natural at
making games if you're in the spot where
I think a lot of people are this is
where I was sort of hoping to reach the
things you like aren't marketable maybe
you're a bad football player a Netflix
enthusiast a video game or something
like that and you're trying to pick your
major you need to go to your backup and
figure out what you don't hate
right there's following your passion but
if your passion is pot and couch time
you need to follow your don't hate you
know and and if you're like well you
know I guess I kind of like computers or
I guess I kind of like this or I kind of
like that then do that you know which
subject do you suck the least at in
school you know if you're college-bound
and if none of them have really jumped
at you if you're like you know what you
know I couldn't imagine really studying
history I couldn't imagine really
getting into English but math is the one
that I tolerate the best cool now we've
got something we can work with go
towards engineering go towards the
physics go towards the the math related
majors even if you're not thinking like
oh yeah maths is freaking lights my fire
that's what I want to do okay I get it
nothing that somebody would be willing
to pay you for lights your fire
find out what you hate the least and go
into it I had a passion for computers
still do actually he got kind of
reignited after a YouTube break but back
on topic I had a passion for computers I
loved it loved it loved it did it every
day and and like my family was like part
of my identity like Matt love my family
cause a man that loves going to work and
it's so great and maybe here does well
he's successful there and I kind of
admitted to my dad sheepishly like dude
I don't really love work anymore like it
doesn't doesn't light my fire in the way
it used to and he's like it took you
eight years to figure that out or
whatever it was you know you're doing
great if you were an attorney six weeks
in you'd be saying that and it clicked
with me because as an accountant
six weeks in I was thinking that
accounting was my first major my first
career and it wasn't wired for it there
are happy accountants out there it's
nice it's a stable job it's a job that's
in demand it's a job that allows you to
just sort of be you without tons of
people pecking at you and picking at you
and judging you you get to sit down and
be an accountant and do your work and
nobody flips with you if you like that
consider accounting but for me it wasn't
what lit my fire and computers were but
over time I think every job kind of
where
you I think you talked to a guy who's
been in the NBA for 14 years you touched
the 15 year old version of him and he
could he wishes he could take a
basketball to school I've all day long
he wishes he could dribble between
classes 14 year old NBA or future NBA
players are passionate about basketball
15 year NBA vets are working for a
living you know they like basketball but
it's not what it was before that's the
nature of work I had a friend and test
pilot school who at first loved it he
was flying around in helicopters and
jets and prop-driven planes and it was
incredible but after a while when they
wrapped work around it it became like
you know they want me to go create this
specific kind of stall and then document
it and it was work all jobs become work
find one that you don't hate if you do
that you're doing better than a lot of
grown-ups and if you can find one that
you don't hate where you make money
you're doing better than a whole lot of
grown-ups and that's my last thing
talking about making money it's nice to
make money there's this concept
especially amongst young people the
other money whore and the badness and
the evil of money and how you know you
should only really need just enough
there's some truth to that once you get
enough money
you've got enough ID when you have
enough you're not so stressed when you
have enough you're I don't know things
just get a little smoother it's not a
constant week-to-week battle you'll have
fewer marital like arguments when you're
not living week to week on your paycheck
I would advise you to get there right
try to make six digits try to do your
thing
earn some money choose engineering if
you like men choose a job that's
marketable where you can earn a good
buck because your life will go smoother
if you make money um
it's it's a good place to be so
don't don't don't sacrifice your career
because you're actually sacrificing your
family you're sacrificing your your
marital bliss there's a lot of stress
that comes in with living week to week
and you know the romanticism of being a
starving artist will wear out when you
realize that you know that certain girls
won't like you girls that you otherwise
would have been very happy with there
are lots of things that you can't have
an envy that will fill you you'll have
not lived up to your potential so so
that's it if you're sitting here
thinking that no majors appeal to you
then I want you to I want you to just
look at what you don't hate and see if
there's any money in that I I feel like
that's a message that you don't get from
your guidance counselor's quite enough
they're always trying to find out what
ignites you so so that's a thing anyway
gana labs I want to talk about them real
quick first of all thank you again
allows for sponsoring this video I hope
you agree with the message I'd be
interested in seeing maybe leave a
comment if you catch it but these guys
make an energy drink there's a link to
their website there's an annotation on
the screen now for a video where I
talked about how effective it was it I
hate to mention their competitors but if
you like Red Bull or if you like Monster
then you should try Gama because it's
cheaper it's more effective and it's
better for you so so check them out and
I hope you guys enjoy the video